--- 030 Verify Platform Binaries_en.srt ---
SUMMARY: Hi everyone, and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to discuss on how you can verify the platform binaries. Now, before we explore this topic, it is important for us to understand the basics of the cryptographic hash function at an overview. Hashing is a one way function where you have an input, you pass on that input to a function, and you get the appropriate digest. And the aim here is that if the input is changed even by a small bit, then the entire digest also changes accordingly. Now, before we proceed further, let's have a quick demo to understand this specific topic. Now from the server we can go to the tmp directory. All right. And I'll just create a file called as one dot txt. And within here I'll have a word. Say hello and I'll save this. Now within your server you can just verify if you have MD5 sum. If this is available this is also fine. There are others but we'll start with md5 sum. So if you have md5 sum, you can run this followed by the name of the file. In this case it is showing no such file or directory. That is fine.
--- 031 Revising Basics of  Ingress_en.srt ---
Now when you do a kubectl get ingress currently you see I have one ingress that is available.
Now when I do a kubectl get pods in the namespace of ingress hyphen nginx.
When you do a kubectl get service in the namespace of ingress hyphen nginx, you will see that associated
And in fact when you do a kubectl get pods in this specific namespace of ingress with the output of
SUMMARY: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video we are going to go ahead and discuss about Kubernetes Ingress. Now before we do that, it is important for us to understand the challenge that organizations face when they have a simplistic configuration of a single load balancer service type. Now, in this case, you will see that we have a very standard architecture. You have a service. This service is of type load balancer. And this is the reason why the node port is also open. So when an external user sends a request to the load balancer, a load balancer will in turn send a request to the node port. And then from the service it goes to the appropriate ports. However, this type of architecture primarily supports a single service over here. Now, in a larger organization, you will have multiple websites that might be hosted as part of Kubernetes. So for each website you will have a separate service. Now if you see you have an example service you have a service. Each has their own individual pods. Now in this case let's assume that whatever website configuration is part of the individual pod needs to be accessible over the internet. So what you do, you create a service with a type of load balancer. Now in a basic configuration what will happen is each load balancer will be associated with a single
--- 032 Overview of Ingress with TLS_en.srt ---
Now before we test the newer setup, what I wanted to do when you do a kubectl get pods on the namespace
When you do a kubectl describe on the ingress, you will see that there is a field of TLS and it states
SUMMARY: Everyone and welcome back. In today's video, at a high level overview, we are going to discuss about using ingress with TLS. Now, in a very basic setup, when you have a service and you have the appropriate ingress controller, the issue at a default configuration is that a HTTP based connections are generally used to connect to the ingress controller. So for example, let's assume that this is a internet user. And this internet user connects to the ingress controller. So this connection at a default level you will see that HTTP is the protocol that is being used. Now since HTTP is a plain text protocol, in case if an attacker is sniffing the network, then attacker can fetch a lot of sensitive information over here. So this is the reason why the HTTP based connections should be avoided. Now, in order to achieve this, you can go ahead and set up ingress with TLS. TLS as we know it ensures secure communication between client and the server. And nowadays most of the websites are using SSL, TLS. is so what you would like to do the communication between user and the ingress controller over here. This communication must be encrypted because this happens through the internet. So this is where you require a TLS based connection. So Https should be involved over here. And in today's video at a high level overview we are going to discuss on how this really looks like in conjunction to the ingress controller and ingress.
--- 033 Practical - Ingress with TLS_en.srt ---
Now note that this controller when we do a kubectl get pods, it does not really create pod in the default
So when you do a kubectl get pods with the namespace of ingress hyphen nginx.
So when I do kubectl get pods again you have to ensure that the status is ready and the pod is running.
Now one more thing that I wanted to show you is that this specific controller, when I do a kubectl
So I have modified the YAML file so that it works with node port in kube adm.
I will say kubectl create secret.
Now when you do a kubectl get secret over here you will see you have a TLS certificate as the secret
And you can also do kubectl describe secret followed by the name of the secret over here.
of YAML.
However, just for simplicity we are using the kubectl create ingress command directly so that we don't
SUMMARY: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in the earlier video we were discussing about the advantages of using ingress with TLS primarily one being the encrypted connection in the external network between the user and the ingress controller. So in today's video, we are going to look into how you can go ahead and set up ingress with TLS from a practical point of view. So as part of today's video, we are going to follow a similar architecture that you see as part of this workflow diagram where we are going to first create a pod. Then we are going to create a service that links with this pod. Then we are going to create a ingress controller. And then we are also going to go ahead and create the appropriate ingress. And then we'll check the entire communication. Now note that whatever TLS certificate that you generate for today's demo we are going to use a self-signed certificate. But in a production environment you can use the proper signed certificate for the domain that you have. So just for simplicity, I have also documented the steps that we are going to implement in today's video as part of GitHub. So in the step number one, we are going to create a pod. And then we are going to create a service. So let's go ahead and quickly do that. So first we'll go ahead and create an example pod based on the image of nginx.
--- 034 Ingress Annotation - SSL Redirect_en.srt ---
So let's again do kubectl get service in the namespace of ingress hyphen nginx.
SUMMARY: Everyone and welcome back. In today's video, we are going to discuss about the SSL redirect annotation as part of the ingress resource. Now, one point that we have to keep a note of is that by default, if you have TLS that is enabled as part of the ingress, in such cases, the controller will redirect the HTTP clients towards the Https port of 443. Now if you look into this specific screenshot, you are making a curl request. This is a HTTP request towards the HTTP based node port associated with the controller. And immediately here you are getting a 308 permanent redirect, and where it is redirecting you, it is redirecting you to the Https based endpoint for the same website where you have made the request for now why this happens here? Nginx assumed that once you have TLS that is defined as part of the ingress, then all traffic should be secure. And this is the reason why this is one of the default settings that applies. Now before we proceed further, let's go ahead and also quickly look into it. Now at this stage when I quickly do a cube CTL get service in the namespace of Ingress engine X, where our nginx controller is also listening. So this is the basic ingress controller. And I also have the ingress that is available. So this is the demo ingress.
--- 035 Revising Basics of Network Policies_en.srt ---
Now I'll also do a kubectl get pods which show labels.
Let's do a kubectl describe network policy of pod selector.
Now before we do that we'll also do a kubectl get pods with the output of white so that we can see the
So I'll say kubectl exec app pod.
So we'll go ahead and add the label just to verify if I do kubectl get pods and I'll do show labels.
Now if I do kubectl get namespace.
Now when you do a kubectl get network policy in the namespace of production, you have a network policy
I'll say kubectl describe net policy, the name of the network policy and the namespace of production.
So when I say kubectl get pods in the namespace of production, there is only one port that is running.
Now when you do kubectl get pods with the output of white, this is the default namespace.
SUMMARY: Hi everyone and welcome back. Today we are going to go ahead and discuss about an interesting topic of network policies. Now in case if you have worked with firewalls it can be a software based firewalls like iptables. Or it can be a cloud specific firewall offerings like for example in AWS you have security group, you have network ACLs, etc. irrespective of that, if you have worked with firewalls, then this topic of network policies will be easier for you to understand at a high level. Overview. Network policies provides similar feature to that of firewall, but is specific for ports. Now, one very important point that needs to be noted is that in a Kubernetes cluster, whenever you launch multiple set of pods, these pods will be able to communicate with each other by default. So Kubernetes allows the pods to communicate with each other in the cluster. And there are no restrictions in these set of communications. So for example pod one can connect to pod two. It can also connect to port. Three. And similarly, all of the ports will be able to inter communicate with each other. Now at an overview this is fine, but in a longer term when you have a production related setup, this is something that you do not really want. So let's understand this with a challenge. So let's assume that one of the ports that is part of your Kubernetes cluster is compromised.
--- 036 Structure of Network Policy_en.srt ---
I have a file called as first net dot YAML, and this is the exact policy that we saw as part of our
SUMMARY: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now, before we start to write our own set of network policies in Kubernetes, first, it is important for us to understand the structure of network policy. If you understand the structure of network policy, then based on the requirement, you will be able to easily create multiple set of network policies. So what we are going to do as part of today's video, we are going to explore one of the network policies that you see over here. This network policy has multiple fields. You have pod selector policy types, ingress egress etc.. So we are going to dissect this. We are going to understand what each one of this means. And once we understand the structure at a high level overview and see on what exactly it is trying to do. Then from the upcoming videos, we will start with the network policy practicals from basics. Now, the first important part that needs to be understood as part of the policy is related to the basic mandatory fields. Now, irrespective of what kind of policy that you define few common fields that you will see. First one is the API version. Second one is the kind. So the kind here is network policy.
--- 037 Practical - Network Policies_en.srt ---
Now within our K8's folder we have a file of base net dot YAML.
So now let's create a file called as example one dot YAML.
And before we test the policy, when you do a kubectl get net poll, which is a short name for network
Now when you do a kubectl run let's say test pod.
So when I do a kubectl get pods you have one port that is currently running.
So what I'm going to do I will create example hyphen two dot YAML.
I'll say example hyphen two dot YAML.
Let's do a kubectl get pods over here we have a test pod that is running.
I'll say kubectl run.
Now when you do a kubectl get pods over here we have two pods that are running.
SUMMARY: Hi everyone and welcome back. So today is going to be a practical video associated with network policies. So let's get started. So the example number one is interesting. What it states block all of the ingress and the egress traffic from a specific port or maybe a set of ports. Now if you look into this specific policy screenshot that you see over here, you have the API version kind metadata and then you have the specs section. The specs section is something that is the most important for us to understand. Now within here you have a pod selector. Now note that when you create a network policy, this network policy can be associated with one pod. It can be associated with 100 pods. So how does a network policy know to which pods it must be associated with is through the pod selector. And then you have the policy types which is ingress and egress. It is not necessary that policy must follow both of them. It can also be a ingress policy or a egress policy. It does not really matter. All matters is what your requirements is. Now, one very important part to remember is that in this policy, if you see, we have just said that it is a ingress and egress based policy, we have not really defined any rules associated with each
--- 038 Network Policies - Except, Port and Protocol_en.srt ---
So when I say cube CTL create hyphen f port hyphen proto dot YAML.
Net policy copy the policy name, you can do a output of YAML and then whatever output that you get
SUMMARY: Hi everyone, and welcome back. Now in today's video, we are going to discuss about the flexibility and additional options that you can add as part of your overall network policy based on wide variety of use cases. So the field that we are going to target is the accept port and protocol. So we are going to look into it at a high level overview. So generally when we write or create network policies we should know at what level of customizations can the rules be off. So this is the reason why we are going to explore these specific fields. The first one is the accept field as part of the network policy. And it allows you to define exceptions to a broader rule. For example, let's say that you are allowing an ingress from an IP block. So this is a bigger IP block like 172 17 zero zero 16. Now from this specific bigger IP block, in case if you do not want connections from certain set of cidrs like one 7217 one zero 24 these kind of exceptions, you can add based on the requirement. The second area that we need to understand is related to port and protocol. Now in this example you have an egress that allows connection from the port towards the IP block where the Cidr of this range. Now within here you have also specified port of say 32,000 to 32 768. And then you have also explicitly added the protocol of TCP. So based on the exact requirement this kind of flexibility is also available.
--- 039 Kubeadm Structure_en.srt ---
So now when we run commands like kubectl get At nodes.
Now when you do a kubectl get pods in the namespace of kube system, you see you have a pod of etcd
So when you do kubectl get pods in the namespace of cube system.
And generally it is used when you want to modify certain configuration of Kubelet is the Config.yaml.
For example, when I quickly do a nano on config dot YAML, you will see these are all of the configuration.
So when I do a kubectl get nodes we have one node available.
And when you do a kubectl describe or you can say kubectl get nodes show label first.
And also when you do a kubectl describe node kube adm in a default configuration, you will see that
And when we save this now as soon as you have saved this when you try to do kubectl get nodes, you
And when you do kubectl get nodes, you see it is backup.
SUMMARY: Hi everyone and welcome back. Today we are going to discuss at a high level overview about the overall file directory structure when kube ADM is configured. Once the kube ADM is installed, one of the very important folders is the ATC Kubernetes. Why? It is important because it holds all of the essential manifest files and certificates required to create and manage your cluster components. And generally, whenever you want to modify certain aspects of, say, API, server or etcd, you will have to go to this specific folder itself. Now let's also quickly look into it. So when I go to etcd Kubernetes if I do a ls over here, you see there are multiple files that are available, not only files, but there are certain folders that are also available. We will be looking into what each one of them means in more detail. Now the first important folder is related to PKI. Now in cube ADM, the components like the API server, etcd, they communicate over the secure channel. So you have the Https based connection. Plus you have the certificates that are being used as part of authentication. So when you have a certificates, when you have a certificate authority, all of the certificates related to the components are stored in etc., Kubernetes PKI. And inside this folder you will see there are so many certificates like the API server, the certificate
--- 040 Kubeadm Troubleshooting_en.srt ---
For example, when I do kubectl get pods, I have certain ports like nginx port privileged port.
SUMMARY: Everyone. And welcome back. In today's video at a high level overview, we are going to discuss about the troubleshooting aspects related to Kubeadm. So many times what happens is specifically if you are working in a team and a team member has modified certain manifest file, and due to that, your cluster is not really coming up. So in such case, do you know what are the steps that you need to take? What are the log files that you have to check. So all of those information is what we are going to look into in today's video. Now ideally when the cluster is not really working as expected, one of the important logs that you can check is related to the Cubelet log. Now generally in kube ADM based clusters, the cubelet is managed using systemd. So you can run the journalctl command to check the cubelet related logs. This also sometimes gives you a lot of important information. Along with that, you should also know that there are pod specific logs that are available specifically in the var log directory. So within here you see there are multiple folders, each one associated with the pod. And if you want to check component specific log, this can prove to be very useful. Let's also look into it. Now at this stage if I do cube CTL get nodes, we have a working node that is available.